In this video,
we're gonna download and instal IntelliJ IDEA
which is the editor or IDE,
Integrated Development Environment,
we're gonna be using to create programmes in this course.
So what we need to do is start out by going to jetbrains.com
and JetBrains is the creator of the IntelliJ IDEA product.
We'll go to their website.
I'm gonna come down to the tools menu, hover over that,
move on down to IntelliJ IDEA.
I'm gonna click over here to yes I agree
just to remove that little popup.
I'm gonna select download.
Now when we do that, there's two options here.
We've got the Ultimate edition,
noting that it's also available for macOS and Linux as well.
So we've got the Ultimate edition and the Community edition.
So we can use the Community edition in this course
and that's completely free and open source.
There's no cost.
There's never gonna be a cost to use it.
It's completely free.
The Ultimate edition, out of interest, is available
if you're looking at some extra tools.
It's more for professional developers,
things like Java Enterprise Edition
and Spring and so on and so forth.
But we're gonna be using the Community edition
so I'm gonna click on over here to download it.
Now I'm gonna select run,
noting that you may have to save this to a folder somewhere
and double click it once it's downloaded
if your browser doesn't allow you to do what I've just done.
So we'll give that a moment to complete.
Now we'll just fast forward this a bit.
All right, you can see we're just about done now.
Okay, when this popup comes up,
I'm gonna click on yes,
that we're gonna allow this app to make changes.
I'm gonna close the browser at this point
because we're finished with that.
We're gonna go through the installation setup.
I'm gonna click on next.
I'm gonna click on next again.
All right, so in this little popup,
you need to specify whether you're a 32-bit
or a 64-bit user.
Now nine times out of 10, you will select 64-bit.
But if you know that your operating system is 32-bit,
then that would be the box you would check.
You can optionally update the context menu
to add an option to open folder as project.
I don't actually use that so I'm gonna leave that unchecked.
And I'm gonna create these associations,
the .java, the .groovy, and .kt which is for Kotlin
because that's so useful
if you want to edit those particular files
in this IntelliJ IDEA product as well.
So generally I would suggest
you just click those options anyway
even if you don't think you're gonna use them at the moment.
I'll click on next, instal.
And this is now installing IntelliJ IDEA.
Once this is completed,
there's a few little minor installation configurations
we need to set before we end the video.
All right, just about finished as we can see now.
All right, the next thing I suggest you do
is check the run IntelliJ IDEA Community edition
because there's a few things we need to set up.
Click on finish.
Eventually this little popup will come up.
We have the option to select a config
or installation folder or do not import settings.
Do not import settings
if this is the first time you've used IntelliJ IDEA.
The config or installation folder is there
if you wanna import settings from a previous installation.
In that case we're not gonna do that
so I'm gonna click on OK
after selecting or making sure
that do not import settings is selected.
We're gonna accept JetBrains' privacy policy
by clicking the check box and clicking continue.
You got the options to send JetBrains
usage anonymous statistics.
I'm gonna click on don't send
but you're free to select
and choose to send those statistics if you wish.
Next, we're prompted as to whether we want a dark background
which is generally easy on the eyes when you're programming
or a light background.
Now I'm gonna choose light
because that tends to come out better in the videos
but if you wanna choose the darker theme,
the darker one then do that,
noting that you can always go back into settings later
and change this.
So I'm gonna click on next.
I'm gonna leave this screen alone,
noting that the screen will be different
if you've chosen the Ultimate edition of IntelliJ.
We don't need to make any changes there.
We can just leave everything as it is.
Click on next.
Same thing here, I'm not gonna change anything.
You can always come back and instal these things later
if that's something that you wanna do.
We won't be using any of those in the course.
Click on start using IntelliJ IDEA.
All right, so at this point, we're now done.
We've now successfully installed IntelliJ IDEA.
So now that we've done that,
we do have a few minor configurations
that we need to finish off,
specifically what we need to do is configure it
for the software development kit
so that we can start creating programmes in this course,
but we're gonna do that in a separate video.
I will end the video now and we'll see you in the next video
where we start making a few other changes
to configure IntelliJ IDEA.
So see you in that next video.